# Exercise - Develop With AI powered code suggestions using GitHub Copilot and VS Code
Completed
100 XP
1 minute
The logo icon for the GitHub Copilot skills exercise with the copilot icon in the middle.

This exercise walks you through the following steps:

- Install GitHub Copilot using GitHub Codespaces  
- Prompt GitHub Copilot for code suggestions  
- Accept code suggestions from GitHub Copilot  

 Note

Please be aware that when signing up for the free trial of GitHub Copilot you will be asked to submit a form of payment even though you will not be charged until the free trial is over. Ensure you cancel before the 30 days is over to avoid payment.

## Getting started
When you select the Start the exercise on GitHub button, you're navigated to a public GitHub template repository that prompts you to complete a series of small challenges. Before you can begin the exercise, complete the following tasks:

Select the Start course button or the Use this template feature within the template repository. This action prompts you to create a new repository. We recommend creating a public repository, because private repositories use Actions minutes. After you make your own repository from the template, wait about 20 seconds and refresh.

Follow the instructions in the repository's README to understand how the exercise works, its learning objectives, and how to successfully complete the exercise.

When you've finished the exercise in GitHub, return back to this module for:

- A quick knowledge check  
- A summary of what you've learned  
- To earn a badge for completing this module  
 
 Note

You don't need to modify any of the workflow files to complete this exercise. Altering the contents in this workflow can break the exercise's ability to validate your actions, provide feedback, or grade the results.


### Next unit: Knowledge check

<hr>

[Github repo link](https://github.com/skills/copilot-codespaces-vscode)

## 1
## Code with GitHub Copilot
GitHub Copilot can help you code by offering autocomplete-style suggestions right in VS Code and Codespaces.

## Welcome
GitHub Copilot can help you code by offering autocomplete-style suggestions. You can learn how GitHub Copilot works, and what to consider while using GitHub Copilot. GitHub Copilot analyzes the context in the file you are editing, as well as related files, and offers suggestions from within your text editor. GitHub Copilot is powered by OpenAI Codex, a new AI system created by OpenAI.

**Who this is for:** Developers, DevOps Engineers, Software development managers, Testers.  
**What you'll learn:** How to install Copilot into a Codespace, accept suggestions from code, accept suggestions from comments.  
**What you'll build:** Javascript files that will have code generated by Copilot AI for code and comment suggestions.  
**Prerequisites:** To use GitHub Copilot you must have an active GitHub Copilot subscription. Sign up for 30 days free Copilot.  
**Timing:** This course can be completed in under an hour.

## How to start this course
start-course

1) Right-click Start course and open the link in a new tab.
2) In the new tab, most of the prompts will automatically fill in for you.
    - For owner, choose your personal account or an organization to host the repository.
    - We recommend creating a public repository, as private repositories will use Actions minutes.
    - Scroll down and click the Create repository button at the bottom of the form.
3) After your new repository is created, wait about 20 seconds, then refresh the page. Follow the step-by-step instructions in the new repository's README.
Get help: Post in our discussion board • Review the GitHub status page

© 2023 GitHub • Code of Conduct • MIT License

<hr>

